a few years ago boarding a commercial
airliner meant cutting yourself off from
the rest of the world communications
ones now more and more airlines offer
in-flight Wi-Fi you might be thrilled
but it turns out there are people who
beg to differ
so what's up is in-flight Wi-Fi a bad
thing let's see it seems like there are
Wi-Fi hotspots literally everywhere
these days you can connect to the net at
restaurants banks office buildings and
in many places public transportation but
what about airplanes how do they get the
internet from 35,000 feet above the
ground
about 10 years ago when the first
passengers got access to the web it was
exclusively thanks to satellite based
systems the same satellites are used for
TV and weather forecasting the plane
gets a signal from the nearest satellite
orbiting the Earth at the moment using
an antenna on the top of its fuselage
the satellite then passes the
information between the ground and the
plane back then it couldn't cope with a
lot of traffic so the best you could do
was check your email that only contain
text it would take you longer than the
actual flight to load a picture then
came the ground-based systems they work
a lot like your cell phone there's an
antenna underneath the plane that gets a
signal from the cell towers on the
ground since the airplane is moving at a
high speed it continuously connects to
whichever towers are closest to avoid
interrupting the browsing so the whole
plane basically becomes one huge hotspot
and an onboard router distributes the
Wi-Fi signal to the passengers they can
not only check their emails but make
phone calls browse their social media
use their favorite online apps or even
watch movies it all happens at a regular
3G speed just like on the ground the
only problem with this type of
connection is that it's only possible
over land because there are obviously no
towers in the water so the satellite
systems are also still used to keep you
on the grid while in the air they've
become way more advanced and
I'll run on two bandwidths narrowband
and broadband still only broadband
allows passengers to stream movies the
narrower options aren't powerful enough
the u.s. currently has a more developed
infrastructure for both satellite and
ground-based systems so the connection
you can get flying over the States is
stronger and cheaper than in Europe for
example it sounds pretty awesome to stay
connected and get some work done while
flying yet some people don't find this
idea all that brilliant they would argue
that planes have basically become the
last tech free space where you can just
unplug and free your mind from the
ever-present beeping an avalanche of
content coming your way it's a chance to
watch one of the movies you've never had
time for or read a book you've been
putting off for years or just chat with
your neighbors real communication is
becoming more and more rare these days
finally there are also safety concerns
like when using any other shared network
your private or financial data could be
compromised by cyber criminals if you
take your work on board and send
business emails then you're risking
losing your company's data as well and
if you're not afraid of losing data
there's also always a chance of getting
a virus or malware on your gadget by the
way do you use public Wi-Fi often or do
you think that it's not that safe let me
know in the comment section below while
more and more airlines are offering
in-flight Wi-Fi a lot of people complain
it's too slow that's because the tech
that's necessary for the in-flight Wi-Fi
systems is super expensive and airlines
don't replace it as often as you replace
your gadgets so while you get an
upgraded phone every couple of years the
plane systems aren't used for five to
ten years and simply can't catch up with
the ever-growing number of users and
their gadgets capabilities and as for
rumbling about the high price for the
service consider this the equipment
itself is expensive if the antenna
catching the signal increases drag
causing the plane to need more fuel and
there are also engineering and
maintenance costs to keep it all working
inflight Wi-Fi providers claim is
going to get better and better but
meanwhile in case you're annoyed with
the low-speed refused to use Wi-Fi
onboard out of principle or simply fly
the no Wi-Fi airlines here's a list of
ideas to keep yourself busy during your
flight play a game and I don't mean an
app on your phone but an actual game
that involves reaching out to other
people
they could be your travel companions or
just the guy in the seat next to you
most popular board games from backgammon
to taboo have a pocket or travel version
you can bring along you can also buy a
book of crosswords word searches or
other puzzles if you don't like carrying
any extra stuff
good old charades or guess who are still
just as fun you can also try out some
plane related games for example you can
look for different shapes in the clouds
and make up a story connecting them all
another idea is trying to guess what
city or country you're flying over
then open the map that's available on
many flights and see who was right
and if you're crossing countries you can
start a who can do the best accent of
this country competition it gets pretty
hilarious edit content for your social
media if you're going home from vacation
you probably have tons of pictures
you're planning to share with your
friends online you can use your
off-the-grid time to edit them or create
a posting plan using offline apps that
let you see what the pictures will look
like on your Instagram grid you can also
create good long captions in your notes
no one has time for that on vacation
right or you can make room for new
pictures on your phone by going through
and deleting any unwanted ones organize
your laptop if you're traveling with
your laptop don't miss an opportunity to
clean it and organize the files you have
on it does your desktop have over a
hundred folders on it 50 of them named
new folder or sort later you're not
alone
why not take care of this chaos well you
don't have anything else to do listen to
a podcast there are all kinds of
podcasts in this world from how to
motivate yourself to be more productive
to what a journey inside a black hole
would look like one thing they have in
common is that you most likely never
have the time to listen to them well on
the ground so download them before
getting on the plane and enjoy learning
something new while looking at the
clouds write a journal do things that
prevent a lot of people from writing a
journal our lack of time and
distractions so when you have time but
no distractions around you you can put
the details of your latest trip on paper
before you forget them or write down
your expectations for the trip that's
just starting and later compare them to
reality you can also try setting some
goals creating a mind map of the person
you want to become or make a pros and
cons list if you have some dilemma
that's bugging you do some last-minute
organization in case you packed in a
rush go through your carry-on and
rearrange it in a more organized way if
you didn't have the time to plan your
trip day by day use a paper guide or an
offline app to read about the place
you're going to and make plans you can
also think over a budget for the trip or
learn a few useful phrases in the local
language at all where is bathroom please
treat yourself to some skincare you're
not allowed to bring liquids or large
bottles on board but you can take a
fiber facemask spa gloves or D puffing
eye mask with you they'll make the air
travel experience a little less dramatic
for your skin there's also a facial
massage and even some stretching
exercises and yoga poses you can try it
right in your airplane seat
finally there are always the good old
read a book listen to some music watch a
movie or chat with your neighbor options
myself I think that learning how to
juggle 3 balls right there might be a
good conversation starter especially
when you need their help to get them
back after you drop one or two balls
under your seat
that's just me hey if you learn
something new today then give the video
a like and share with a friend and here
are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]